README.md, before:

![https://github.com/jefmsmit/gdshowsdb/actions?query=workflow%3ACI](https://github.com/jefmsmit/gdshowsdb/workflows/CI/badge.svg)

# Gdshowsdb
All Grateful Dead show information in a relational database.

Hoping to make this freely available database the cannonical resource for all Grateful Dead concert information.

Additionally, This Gem can be used as an API to the data.

## Using with Ruby

```ruby
require 'gdshowsdb'

Gdshowsdb.init()
Gdshowsdb.load()

jack_straw_shows = SongRef.find_by_name('Jack Straw').shows

jack_straw_shows.each do |show|
	puts show.title
end
```

## Using with Rails

Add this to your Gemfile
```
gem 'gdshowsdb'
```

Generate the database migrations
```
rails generate gdshowsdatabase
```

## Understanding the Model

The `SongRef` class represents the reference data about a song. For example there is only one `SongRef` instance (or database row if you prefer) for "Wharf Rat". This allows us to normalize song names so its always "Goin' Down The Road Feeling Bad" and not sometimes "GDTRFB". A `SongRef` knows the `Shows` where it was performed.

The `Show` class is for reprsenting all the particulars about a performance. City, State, Venue, etc.

The `ShowSet` class is for representing a segment of a show. That way we can know what was played in the first set version the second versus the encore. I did not call it `Set` in order to avoid confusing with the Ruby class of the same name.

The `Song` class is for representing the occurence of a `SongRef`. `Song`s know which set the occurence of a `SongRef` happened in, its position in the `ShowSet` as well as wether it was segued out of.

The `SongOccurence` class is named association (think join table in sql) that allows a `Show` to know which `SongRef`s were performed without having to traverse throug the `ShowSet`s. I'm not convinced of this classes value and might remove it.

Commit message:

Adding uniqueness constraints and prepping for version 4.0.0

README.md, after:

![https://github.com/jefmsmit/gdshowsdb/actions?query=workflow%3ACI](https://github.com/jefmsmit/gdshowsdb/workflows/CI/badge.svg)

# Gdshowsdb
All Grateful Dead show information in a relational database.

Hoping to make this freely available database the cannonical resource for all Grateful Dead concert information.

Additionally, This Gem can be used as an API to the data.

## Please Note
Versions prior to 4.0.0 had issues with data integrity. Specificaly, there were no database constrains around
uniqueness, and there were duplicate UUIDs on Songs. It is strongly recommended that you upgrade to a version
4.0.0 or higher.

## Using with Ruby

```ruby
require 'gdshowsdb'

Gdshowsdb.init()
Gdshowsdb.load()

jack_straw_shows = SongRef.find_by_name('Jack Straw').shows

jack_straw_shows.each do |show|
	puts show.title
end
```

## Using with Rails

Add this to your Gemfile
```
gem 'gdshowsdb'
```

Generate the database migrations
```
rails generate gdshowsdatabase
```

## Understanding the Model

The `SongRef` class represents the reference data about a song. For example there is only one `SongRef` instance (or database row if you prefer) for "Wharf Rat". This allows us to normalize song names so its always "Goin' Down The Road Feeling Bad" and not sometimes "GDTRFB". A `SongRef` knows the `Shows` where it was performed.

The `Show` class is for reprsenting all the particulars about a performance. City, State, Venue, etc.

The `ShowSet` class is for representing a segment of a show. That way we can know what was played in the first set version the second versus the encore. I did not call it `Set` in order to avoid confusing with the Ruby class of the same name.

The `Song` class is for representing the occurence of a `SongRef`. `Song`s know which set the occurence of a `SongRef` happened in, its position in the `ShowSet` as well as wether it was segued out of.

The `SongOccurence` class is named association (think join table in sql) that allows a `Show` to know which `SongRef`s were performed without having to traverse throug the `ShowSet`s. I'm not convinced of this classes value and might remove it.
